Relevance reporting service (#35)
wellcomecollection/docs: rfcs/026-relevance_reporting_service/README.md

1. This will be run against Elastic's [ `rank_eval` ](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/search-rank-eval.html) api
1. We will report on the response of `rank_eval` response

### Collection search-terms

@alicerichmond is going through some rounds of qualitative research with internal people first, and working with them to go through some searches that they know should return certain results. There are a few documents about which we will distil into this<sup> `*` </sup>.

@taceybadgerbrook is also working on analysing the quantitative search queries to help come up with this. [e.g.](https://github.com/wellcomecollection/catalogue/pull/634/files)

<sup> `*` </sup> Documents to distil

* https://docs.google.com/document/d/1aIbE4IAOZb1Cbyp9ei81HtZ5w98AVZHIrudP9RUG1Is/edit#heading=h.byr3zbqes7qg
* https://wellcomecloud-my.sharepoint.com/:w:/g/personal/a_richmond_wellcome_ac_uk/EZ-5bvoQ76NCkIBDok_L0c0BaqsaFKFLN-J9KtnEprUsKw?e=lyzSmO
* https://app.gitbook.com/@wellcomecollection/s/catalogue/search/intentions-and-expectations

> ## Technical implementation

Reviewer: Just "Implementation"?

Author: ```suggestion
## Implementation
```

The relevance service will be a lambda that can be triggered by services that have IAM permission to do so.

The service can return a fail / pass as a response to the call, being useful for CI etc, and can store that report in S3 for dashboards.

### Pseudo λ

``` js

> const http = require('http');

Reviewer: 👍

# RFC 026: Relevance reporting service

**Last updated: 06 July 2020.**

## Glossary

* **elastic-query:** A blob of JSON we send to Elasticsearch
* **search-terms:** A set of terms sent as a string from a client to a search service

## Summary

A way for us to be able to test and report on the efficacy of elastic-queries by being able to compare a set of search-terms and their respective expected results and ordering.

## Motivation

> We need to have and instil transparency and confidence in the way that our search relevancy works.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We need to have confidence and instil transparency in the way that our search relevancy works.
```

> Any test to help with this will need to be against our production data, as that is exactly what people will be seeing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We should test using the same data people are seeing.
```

### Use cases

* Developers and data-scientists being able to write new search queries with  confidence in improvement and without fear of regression
* Allowing internal teams to have a greater understanding and more input as to how the search works, thus being able to share this with external researchers
* External researchers interested in how their results are being returned

## Proposal

> ![architecture](./relevance_service.png)

Reviewer: I find the architecture diagram & the explanation below quite confusing (I found I needed the context of the Elasticsearch rank eval docs to understand better).

Some explanation of the terms used and some examples of what they are ("query", "elastic-query", "search terms") would be useful for me.

Author: There is a glossary at the top of the doc outlining those queries - does that need to be made clearer?

Reviewer: For me, yes: "A blob of JSON we send to Elasticsearch" doesn't tell me what it is for.

Here's my understanding: 

1. The service accepts a query with some expected results. 
2. The service compares the results of that query on real data to the expected results. 
3. The services responds with an evaluation of how well the expected results match reality. 

The service is a layer on top of the rank-eval API in Elasticsearch allowing you to record interactions and take actions based on responses.

> 1. Creating a public API where you can send elastic-queries

Reviewer: Why should the API be public?

Author: ```suggestion
1. Creating an API where you can send elastic-queries
```

Was more about being accessible, but thinking about it - that's the nature of an API, public or not.

1. We will report on the response of `rank_eval` response

To create the `rank_eval` test we will

* Use the current research to fill in the search-queries and relevant documents
* Release this to internal and external people
* Use feedback from internal people to fill out the `rank_eval` tests
* Repeat

### Collection search-terms

@alicerichmond is going through some rounds of qualitative research with internal people first, and working with them to go through some searches that they know should return certain results. There are a few documents about which we will distil into this<sup> `*` </sup>.

@taceybadgerbrook is also working on analysing the quantitative search queries to help come up with this. [e.g.](https://github.com/wellcomecollection/catalogue/pull/634/files)

<sup> `*` </sup> Documents to distil

* https://docs.google.com/document/d/1aIbE4IAOZb1Cbyp9ei81HtZ5w98AVZHIrudP9RUG1Is/edit#heading=h.byr3zbqes7qg
* https://wellcomecloud-my.sharepoint.com/:w:/g/personal/a_richmond_wellcome_ac_uk/EZ-5bvoQ76NCkIBDok_L0c0BaqsaFKFLN-J9KtnEprUsKw?e=lyzSmO
* https://app.gitbook.com/@wellcomecollection/s/catalogue/search/intentions-and-expectations

## Implementation

> The relevance service will be a lambda that can be triggered by services that have IAM permission to do so.

Reviewer: Why a lambda? What language are you proposing to write it in?

# RFC 026: Relevance reporting service

**Last updated: 06 July 2020.**

## Glossary

* **elastic-query:** A blob of JSON we send to Elasticsearch

> * **search-terms:** A set of terms sent as a string from a client to a search service

Reviewer 2: 👍  for taking some of the load off "query"

## Summary

A way for us to be able to test and report on the efficacy of elastic-queries by being able to compare a set of search-terms and their respective expected results and ordering.

## Motivation

We need to have and instil transparency and confidence in the way that our search relevancy works.

Any test to help with this will need to be against our production data, as that is exactly what people will be seeing.

### Use cases

* Developers and data-scientists being able to write new search queries with  confidence in improvement and without fear of regression
* Allowing internal teams to have a greater understanding and more input as to how the search works, thus being able to share this with external researchers
* External researchers interested in how their results are being returned

## Proposal

![architecture](./relevance_service.png)

1. Creating a public API where you can send elastic-queries
1. This query will be run against a set of predefined search-terms, which will also have a preset set of relevant documents which should match

> 1. This will be run against Elastic's [ `rank_eval` ](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/search-rank-eval.html) api

Reviewer 2: do we want to say any more here about how we'll use `rank_eval`? eg the appropriate ways that records might be allowed / required to match the search-terms

Author: Yip, maybe let's run some experiments together.

Author: As discussed this will come out while doing the work rather than thinking about it.

1. We will report on the response of `rank_eval` response

## Technical implementation

The relevance service will be a lambda that can be triggered by services that have IAM permission to do so.

> The service can return a fail / pass as a response to the call, being useful for CI etc, and can store that report in S3 for dashboards.

Reviewer 2: could also include some more internal detail about how a failure might be induced, eg 
- the distinction between a soft failure of a single test and a hard failure which is reported to CI etc
- hard failure above a threshold number of soft failures
- hard failure caused by a critical test failing

Reviewer: I wonder if storing the result of the runs in ES might allow the results to be visualised in Kibana?
